docs(tutorial): proxmox cluster (#343)
scaleway/docs-content: tutorials/setup-elastic-metal-proxmox-cluster-with-private-networks/index.mdx

---
meta:

>   title: How to setup a Proxmox cluster on Elastic Metal servers using Private Networks

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  title: Setting up a Proxmox cluster on Elastic Metal servers using Private Networks
```

  description: This page explains how to setup a Proxmox cluster on Elastic Metal servers using the Private Networks feature
content:

>   h1: How to setup a Proxmox cluster on Elastic Metal servers using the Private Networks feature

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  h1: Setting up a Proxmox cluster on Elastic Metal servers using the Private Networks feature
```

  paragraph: This page explains how to setup a Proxmox cluster on Elastic Metal servers using the Private Networks feature
categories:
  - dedicated servers
  - elastic-metal
tags: Proxmox Elastic-Metal KVM-over-IP virtual-machine container
dates:
  validation: 2022-01-10
  posted: 2022-01-10
---

## Proxmox - Overview

> [Proxmox Virtual Environment](https://www.proxmox.com/en/proxmox-ve) - or Proxmox VE is a server virtualization platform, based on Debian Linux. It allows the deployment and management of [KVM-based](https://www.linux-kvm.org/page/Main_Page) virtual machines or [LXC](https://linuxcontainers.org/) containers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Proxmox Virtual Environment](https://www.proxmox.com/en/proxmox-ve) - or Proxmox VE - is a server virtualization platform, based on Debian Linux. It allows the deployment and management of [KVM-based](https://www.linux-kvm.org/page/Main_Page) virtual machines or [LXC](https://linuxcontainers.org/) containers.
```

> 

Reviewer: Maybe add a brief overview of what the tutorial will do, eg:

In this tutorial, we show you how to install Proxmox on your Elastic Metal servers, configure the Private Network via the Proxmox interface, and create a cluster of virtual machines across the two Elastic Metal servers which communicate via the Private Network. All the virtual machines can be managed from a single Proxmox interface, with the Private Network ensuring a high level of security and low latency.

Author: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, we show you how to install Proxmox on your Elastic Metal servers, configure the Private Network via the Proxmox interface, and create a cluster of virtual machines across the two Elastic Metal servers which communicate via the Private Network. All the virtual machines can be managed from a single Proxmox interface, with the Private Network ensuring a high level of security and low latency.
```

> 

Author: In this tutorial, we show you how to install Proxmox on your Elastic Metal servers, configure the Private Network via the Proxmox interface, and create a cluster of virtual machines across the two Elastic Metal servers which communicate via the Private Network. All the virtual machines can be managed from a single Proxmox interface, with the Private Network ensuring a high level of security and low latency.

The tool provides a REST-API as well as a graphical web interface to manage the virtual machines. It is also licensed under the [GNU Affero General Public License, version 3](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/agpl-3.0.html).

<Message type="requirement">

- You have an account and are logged into the [Scaleway console](https://console.scaleway.com)
- You have at least two [Elastic Metal servers](https://www.scaleway.com/en/dedibox/)

> - You have created a [Private Network](/elastic-metal/how-to/use-private-networks/) and linked your Elastic Metal servers to it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You have created a [Private Network](/elastic-metal/how-to/use-private-networks/) and attached your Elastic Metal servers to it
```

> The tool provides a REST-API as well as a graphical web interface to manage the virtual machines. It is also licensed under the [GNU Affero General Public License, version 3](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/agpl-3.0.html).

Reviewer: I think the bit starting "the tool" should go with the previous paragraph?

</Message>

## Installing Proxmox

1. Select your Elastic Metal server by clicking on **Elastic Metal** in the **Compute** section of the side menu of the Scaleway console.

> 2. Choose the server you want to install from the list and click it's name to see the server dashboard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Choose the server you want to install from the list and click its name to see the server dashboard.
```

> 3. Click **Install** and select **Proxmox VE 7** from the list of avilable images.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Click **Install** and select **Proxmox VE 7** from the list of available images.
```

> - You have created a [Private Network](/elastic-metal/how-to/use-private-networks/) and attached your Elastic Metal servers to it

Reviewer 2: maybe add a link for "how to attach" the servers

Author: Good point. It seems we have no doc about it. shall we create one?

  <Lightbox src="scaleway-proxmox-image.png" alt="" />
4. Click **Install this Elastic Metal server** to launch the installation.
  <Message type="note">

  The installation of your Elastic Metal server may take up to one hour. 

  </Message>

>   todo: add information where to retrieve credentials

Reviewer: Still a todo here

## Accessing Proxmox

Once the server has rebooted, the Proxmox web interface is available.

> 1. Open a web browser and go to `https://your_elastic_metal_server_ip:8006/`. The login screen displays. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Open a web browser and go to `https://your_elastic_metal_server_ip:8006/`. The Proxmox login screen displays. 
```

2. Enter your credentials and click **Login**.

>   Enter the credentials to login:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Enter the credentials to log in:
```

> Once the server has rebooted, the Proxmox web interface is available.

Reviewer 2: If it needed to have been rebooted I think we should include a step for this before this part

    - **User Name**: `root`
    - **Password**: The password set during the installation of Proxmox
    - **Realm**: `Linux PAM standard authentication`
    - **Language**: The display language of the Proxmox interface (i.e. `English`)

  The Proxmox dashboard displays.

## Configuring the Private Network

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Instead of [configuring the Private Network interface directly from your server's command line](/compute/elastic-metal/how-to/use-private-networks/#how-to-configure-the-network-interface-on-your-elastic-metal-server-for-private-networks), we must configure it using the Proxmox interface.
```

> 1. Click on the Proxmox host in the datacenter menu on the left. The servers dashboard displays.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Click the Proxmox host in the datacenter menu on the left. The servers dashboard displays.
```

2. Click **Network** in the **System** section of the menu. The network dashboard displays. 

3. Click **Create** > **Linux VLAN**. 

    <Lightframe src="scaleway-proxmox-network-dashboard.png" alt="" />

4. Enter the VLAN details for your Private Network: 

>     <Lightfrae src="scaleway-proxmox-vlan-details.png" alt="" />

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    <Lightframe src="scaleway-proxmox-vlan-details.png" alt="" />
```

>     * **Name**: The name of your primary interface followed by a dot and the VLAN ID of your Private Network (e.g. `eno1.1918` for the primary network interface `eno1` and the VLAN ID `1918`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * **Name**: The name of your primary network interface followed by a dot and the VLAN ID of your Private Network (e.g. `eno1.1918` for the primary network interface `eno1` and the VLAN ID `1918`)
```

    * **IPv4/CIDR**: The IP address of the machine in your Private Network followed by its CIDR netmask (e.g. `192.168.1.101/24`)
    * **(Optional) Gateway (IPv4)**: The IP address of your [Public Gateway](/network/vpc/concepts#public-gateway), if you want to use one.
    * **Autostart**: Tick this box to automatically bring up the interface during system startup.

  5. Click **Create** to create the Private Network interface.

    <Message type="note">

>     Repeat the steps above on each node you want to add to your Private Network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Repeat the steps above on each node (in our case, each Elastic Metal server) you want to add to your Private Network.
```

    </Message>

## Creating a Cluster 

1. Click **Cluster** in the Datacenter view of the Promox interface of your first node. The cluster dashboard displays.

    <Lightframe src="scaleway-proxmox-cluster-overview.png" alt="" />

2. Click **Create Cluster**. 

> 3. Enter a name for the cluster and select your Private Network as cluster network. Then click **Create**. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Enter a name for the cluster and select your Private Network as the cluster network. Then click **Create**. 
```

    <Lightbox src="scaleway-proxmox-create-cluster.png" alt="" />

4. Select the cluster in the cluster list and click **Join Information**. The cluster join information displays.

    <Lightbox src="scaleway-proxmox-cluster-list.png" alt="" />

5. Click **Copy Information** to copy the cluster join information into the clipboard. 

6. Go to the Proxmox interface of your second node and click **Cluster** to enter the cluster configuration from the Datacenter view of the machine. 

7. Click **Join Cluster** and paste the cluster join information in the form. 

> 8. Enter your first nodes `root` password and click **Join** to link the machine to the cluster. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
8. Enter your first node's `root` password and click **Join** to link the machine to the cluster. 
```

> 4. Select the cluster in the cluster list and click **Join Information**. The cluster join information displays.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Select the cluster in the list and click **Join Information**. The cluster join information displays.
```
